Update add-cms-element.md + Add Cms Element via AdminSDK article (#555)
shopware/docs: guides/plugins/plugins/content/cms/add-cms-element-via-admin-sdk.md

> # Add CMS element via AdminExtensionSDK

Reviewer: Admin Extension SDK

## Overview

> This article will teach you how to create a new CMS element via the AdminExtensionSDK. The plugin in this example will be named `SwagBasicAppCmsElementExample`, similar to the other guides.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This article will teach you how to create a new CMS element via the Admin Extensions SDK. The plugin in this example will be named `SwagBasicAppCmsElementExample`, similar to the other guides.
```

## Prerequisites

You won't learn how to create a plugin or an app in this guide, head over to our Plugin or App Base Guide to create your first extension.

> This guide will also not explain how a custom component can be created in general, so head over to the official guide about creating a custom component to learn this first. It also won't go too much into detail about the Admin Extension SDK. For that, please have a look at the [Admin Extension SDK documentation](https://shopware.github.io/admin-extension-sdk/docs/guide/getting-started/installation).

Reviewer 2: Replace this info as below

* [Knowledge on the creation of Plugin or App](https://developer.shopware.com/docs/guides/plugins/apps/app-base-guide)
* Knowledge on the creation of [admin custom component](https://developer.shopware.com/docs/guides/plugins/plugins/administration/add-custom-component#creating-a-custom-component)
* Understanding on [Admin Extension SDK](https://shopware.github.io/admin-extension-sdk/docs/guide/getting-started/installation)

Author: Not 100% sure, if I understood this correctly, but I hope this is fine now :)

Reviewer 2: The bullet points are just an alternate description for the one you had written earlier. Also, in a positive and straightforward way. Request you to replace the two paragraphs just with the bulleted points.

Author: Ah, okay. I got that. Pushed :+1:

> Note: This example uses TypeScript, which is recommended, but not required for developing Shopware.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% hint style="info" %}
This example uses TypeScript, which is recommended, but not required for developing Shopware.
{% endhint %}
```

{% page-ref page="../../administration/app-base-guide.md" %}
{% page-ref page="../../administration/add-custom-component.md" %}

## Creating your custom element

Like in the Plugin Guide for this topic, imagine you want to create a new element to display a Dailymotion video. The shop manager can configure the link of the video to be shown. That's exactly what you're going to build in this guide.

> Creating a new element via app requires you to use the AdminExtensionSDK.

Reviewer: Admin Extension SDK

### Target structure

> It is yours to decide which approach to use when creating apps, since everything we're doing here will be loaded via iFrame, but since Shopware's best practice is a full VueJs approach, this tutorial will do exactly that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is yours to decide which approach to use when creating apps, since everything we're doing here will be loaded via iFrame, but since Shopware's best practice is a full Vue.js approach, this tutorial will do exactly that.
```

        ├── swag-dailymotion-config.ts
        ├── swag-dailymotion-element.ts
        └── swag-dailymotion-preview.ts
```

{% endcode %}

## Initial loading of components

Everything starts in the `main.ts` file:

```ts
import 'regenerator-runtime/runtime';
import { location } from '@shopware-ag/admin-extension-sdk';

// Only execute extensionSDK commands when
// it is inside a iFrame (only needed for plugins)
if (location.isIframe()) {
    if (location.is(location.MAIN_HIDDEN)) {
        // Execute the base commands
        import('./base/mainCommands');
    } else {
        // Render different views
        import('./viewRenderer');
    }
}
```

This is main file, which is executed first and functions as our entry point.

We start with `if(location.isIframe())` to make sure we only load content used inside iFrames. The reason for this is that the SDK can be used in apps and plugins, so this check makes sure that your code is executed in the right place.

Next we need `if(location.is(location.MAIN_HIDDEN))` to **load the main commands**, which are defined in the `mainCommands.ts` file. This will only be used to load logic, but not templates into the Administration.

> Lastly the `else` case will be responsible for specific loading of views via `viewRenderer.ts`. This is where our view templates will be loaded.

Reviewer 2: Replace the info a below:

This is the main file, which is executed first and functions as our entry point.

Start with `if(location.isIframe())` to make sure only content used inside iFrames is loaded. While the SDK is used in apps and plugins, this check ensures the code is executed in the right place.

Next you need `if(location.is(location.MAIN_HIDDEN))` to **load the main commands**, which are defined in the `mainCommands.ts` file. This will only be used to load logic, but not templates into the Administration.

Lastly, the `else` case will be responsible for specific loading of views via `viewRenderer.ts`. This is where the view templates will be loaded.

> Now we need to create the `viewRenderer.ts` file, which will include the 3 mandatory files needed for a CMS element. We prefix them with `swag-dailymotion`, consisting of a vendor prefix and the component name, to make sure no other developer will accidentally choose the same name as we did:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we need to create the `viewRenderer.ts` file, which will include the three mandatory files needed for a CMS element. We prefix them with `swag-dailymotion`, consisting of a vendor prefix and the component name, to make sure no other developer will accidentally choose the same name as we did:
```

> Now we need to create the `viewRenderer.ts` file, which will include the three mandatory files needed for a CMS element. We prefix them with `swag-dailymotion`, consisting of a vendor prefix and the component name, to make sure no other developer will accidentally choose the same name as we did:

Reviewer 2: Replace the info as below :

Now, create the `viewRenderer.ts` file, which will include the three mandatory files needed for a CMS element. Prefix them with `swag-dailymotion`, consisting of a vendor prefix and the component name to make sure no other developer will accidentally choose the same name:

Let's see how the component loading via `viewRenderer.ts` looks like:

```ts
import Vue from 'vue';
import { location } from '@shopware-ag/admin-extension-sdk';

// watch for height changes
location.startAutoResizer();

// start app views
const app = new Vue({
    el: '#app',
    data() {
        return { location };
    },
    components: {
        'SwagDailymotionElement':
            () => import('./views/swag-dailymotion/swag-dailymotion-element'),
        'SwagDailymotionConfig':
            () => import('./views/swag-dailymotion/swag-dailymotion-config'),
        'SwagDailymotionPreview':
            () => import('./views/swag-dailymotion/swag-dailymotion-preview'),
    },
    template: `
        <SwagDailymotionElement
            v-if="location.is('swag-dailymotion-element')"
        ></SwagDailymotionElement>
        <SwagDailymotionConfig
            v-else-if="location.is('swag-dailymotion-config')"
        ></SwagDailymotionConfig>
        <SwagDailymotionPreview
            v-else-if="location.is('swag-dailymotion-preview')"
        ></SwagDailymotionPreview>
    `,
});
```

> Really straight forward, isn't it? As you probably know from vanilla VueJS's Options API, we just need to load, register and use our VueJS component to make them work.

Reviewer: Vue.js instead of VueJS.

Reviewer: What's "Vanilla VueJS"? Are you mentioning Composition API somewhere in this article or any other mechanisms? Otherwise I think it's an unnecessary detail :)

Author: I meant non-shopware vue, but sure, this can be removed :D

In our case, we'll get our own **auto generated** `locationIds`, depending on the name of our CMS element plus suffixes `-element`, `-config` and `-preview`.

Those will be available after **registering the component**, which we'll do in the following chapter.

## Registering a new element

For this topic we head to `mainCommands.ts`, since the registration of CMS elements is something to be done in a global scope.

```ts
import { cms } from '@shopware-ag/admin-extension-sdk';

const CMS_ELEMENT_NAME = 'swag-dailymotion';
const CONSTANTS = {
    CMS_ELEMENT_NAME,
    PUBLISHING_KEY: `${CMS_ELEMENT_NAME}__config-element`,
};

void cms.registerCmsElement({
    name: CONSTANTS.CMS_ELEMENT_NAME,
    label: 'Dailymotion video',
    defaultConfig: {
        dailyUrl: {
            source: 'static',
            value: '',
        },
    },
});

export default CONSTANTS;
```

At first, you see we're importing the AdminExtensionSDK's cms object, used for `cms.registerCmsElement` to register a new element.

> This part is easier than the plugin-only method of creating CMS elements, because the formerly required view names of element, config and preview components are completely handled internally.

Reviewer: Expecting this approach to replace the plugin-way of doing things I think is unnecessary to mention it here.

Author: okay, I'll remove that :)

### Target structure

You can decide what approach to use when creating apps since everything here is loaded via iFrame. However, Shopware's best practice is a full Vue.js approach.

When our extension is finished, you will get the following file structure:

{% code title="<plugin root>/src/Resources/app/administration/src" %}

```bash
├── base
│   └── mainCommands.ts
├── main.ts
├── viewRenderer.ts
└── views
    └── swag-dailymotion
        ├── swag-dailymotion-config.ts
        ├── swag-dailymotion-element.ts
        └── swag-dailymotion-preview.ts
```

{% endcode %}

## Initial loading of components

Everything starts in the `main.ts` file:

```ts
import 'regenerator-runtime/runtime';
import { location } from '@shopware-ag/admin-extension-sdk';

// Only execute extensionSDK commands when
// it is inside a iFrame (only needed for plugins)
if (location.isIframe()) {
    if (location.is(location.MAIN_HIDDEN)) {
        // Execute the base commands
        import('./base/mainCommands');
    } else {
        // Render different views
        import('./viewRenderer');
    }
}
```

> This is the main file, which is executed first and functions as our entry point.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is the main file, which is executed first and functions as the entry point.
```
